C++ authoring tutorial (#311)
codewars/docs: content/languages/cpp/authoring/index.md

This article is not a standalone tutorial on creating kata or translations. It's meant to be a complementary, C++-specific part of a more general set of HOWTOs and guidelines related to [content authoring](/authoring/). If you are going to create a C++ translation, or a new C++ kata from scratch, please make yourself familiar with the aforementioned documents related to authoring in general first. 

## General info

Any technical information related to the C++ setup on Codewars can be found on the [C++ reference](/languages/cpp/) page (language versions, available libraries, and setup of the code runner).

## Description

C++ code blocks can be inserted with C++-specific part in [sequential code blocks](/references/markdown/extensions/#sequential-code-blocks):

~~~
```cpp

...your code here...

```
~~~

C++-specific paragraphs can be inserted with [language conditional rendering](/references/markdown/extensions/#conditional-rendering):

```
~~~if:cpp

...text visible only for C++ description...

~~~

~~~if-not:cpp

...text not visible in C++ description...

~~~
```

## Tasks and Requirements

> Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, and many of them are not widely spread accross other languages. Because of this, some constructs should be avoided and some translations just shouldn't be done.

Author: ```suggestion
Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, and many of them are not widely spread across other languages. Because of this, some constructs should be avoided and some translations just shouldn't be done.
```

- C++ is statically typed, so any task that depends on dynamic typing can be difficult to translate into C++, and attempts of forcing a C++ kata to reflect a dynamically typed interface can lead to ideas that enforce a really bad design.
- There are just a few additional libraries available for the C++ runner, so kata that take advantage of additional, specialized packages installed for other languages become much more difficult in C++.
- Many features of C++ do not have direct equivalents in other popular languages: mixture of allowed paradigms, template meta-programming, unmanaged memory backed by RAII, native access to the platform and runtime, and many others. C++ kata which rely on them can be difficult to translate to other languages.

## Coding

### Code style

C++ programmers have many sets of naming conventions or code style guides. Some of them can be found for example [here](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/coding-standards), or [here](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html). Codewars does not strictly enforce any of them, just use whatever set of guidelines you like, but when you do, use it consistently. 

### Header files

> C++ authors often forget to include required header files, or just leave them out deliberately because "it works" even when some of the files are not included. It happens mostly due to the following reasons:

Author: ```suggestion
C++ authors often forget to include required header files, or just leave them out deliberately because "it works" even when some files are not included. It happens mostly due to the following reasons:
```

    //the reference solution
    memcpy(actual, input, sizeof(double) * array_size);    
    square_every_item(actual, array_size);

    //assertion uses custom message to avoid confusing test output
    //it also uses data from original, non-mutated input array
    size_t invalid_position = get_mismatch_position(actual, reference, array_size);
    cr_assert_arr_eq_cmp(actual, reference, array_size, cmp_double_fuzzy_equal,
                         "Invalid answer at position %zu for input value %f, expected %f but got %f",
                         invalid_position, 
                         input[invalid_position], 
                         reference[invalid_position], 
                         actual[invalid_position]);
  }
}

//a set of large random tests, with not so detailed debugging messages
Test(random_tests, large_arrays) {
  
  double array[1000];     //small enough to be allocated on the stack,
  double reference[1000]; //but you can use dynamic memory if necessary.
  
  for(int i=0; i<10; ++i) {
    
    //generate test cases
    size_t array_size = rand() % 200 + 801;
    fill_random_array(array, array_size);
    

>     //since original array is no used after tests, it's enough to create only one copy

Author: ```suggestion
    //since original array is not used after tests, it's enough to create only one copy
```

This article is not a standalone tutorial on creating kata or translations. It's meant to be a complementary, C++-specific part of a more general set of HOWTOs and guidelines related to [content authoring](/authoring/). If you are going to create a C++ translation, or a new C++ kata from scratch, please make yourself familiar with the aforementioned documents related to authoring in general first. 

## General info

Any technical information related to the C++ setup on Codewars can be found on the [C++ reference](/languages/cpp/) page (language versions, available libraries, and setup of the code runner).

## Description

C++ code blocks can be inserted with C++-specific part in [sequential code blocks](/references/markdown/extensions/#sequential-code-blocks):

~~~
```cpp

...your code here...

```
~~~

C++-specific paragraphs can be inserted with [language conditional rendering](/references/markdown/extensions/#conditional-rendering):

```
~~~if:cpp

...text visible only for C++ description...

~~~

~~~if-not:cpp

...text not visible in C++ description...

~~~
```

## Tasks and Requirements

> Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, and many of them are not widely spread across other languages. Because of this, some constructs should be avoided and some translations just shouldn't be done.

Author: ```suggestion
Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, many of which are not necessarily suited to other languages. For this reason, certain constructs should be avoided and some kata just should not be translated to C++.
```

> Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, and many of them are not widely spread across other languages. Because of this, some constructs should be avoided and some translations just shouldn't be done.

Reviewer: Perfect.

static void That(const char* actual, const ExpressionType& expression, const MessageSupplierType& message_supplier, const char* file_name = "", int line_number = 0);
```

`message_supplier` is a callable compatible with a function accepting no arguments and returning `std::string`. It can be a function, a functor, a lambda expression, or an instance of any type supporting above requirements.

For more details and examples of custom assertion messages, see `[Example test suite](#example_test_suite)` below, or `[Snowhouse reference](/languages/cpp/snowhouse/)` page.

#### Stringizers

In its default configuration, Snowhouse can produce confusing assertion messages, when `expected` and `actual` values are of type it cannot stringify:

```text
  does_not_pretty_print_type_without_stringizer
    Expected: equal to [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
    Actual: [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
```

To rectify such issue in your tests, you can make such types suitable for stringification in a way described in dedicated documentation article on [custom Snowhouse stringizers](/languages/cpp/igloo/stringizers/).

### Random utilities

> Until C++11, the most common way of producing random values was `rand` function. However, it has a set of problems: it needs to be properly seeded, and it's difficult to produce values outside of `0...RAND_MAX` range. Since C++11, standard library offers a set of functionalities which are designed to produce random values of different types, from various ranges, and with better distribution when compared to `rand`. Unfortunately, API presented in `random` header seems to be confusing and difficult to use and accompanied by amount of misconceptions, and authors either use it incorrectly, or resort to (not) good, old `rand`. However, working with `random` turns out to be not that difficult:

Author: ```suggestion
Until C++11, the most common way of producing random values was `rand` function. However, it has a set of problems: it needs to be properly seeded, and it's difficult to produce values outside `0...RAND_MAX` range. Since C++11, standard library offers a set of functionalities which are designed to produce random values of different types, from various ranges, and with better distribution when compared to `rand`. Unfortunately, API presented in `random` header seems to be confusing and difficult to use and accompanied by amount of misconceptions, and authors either use it incorrectly, or resort to (not) good, old `rand`. However, working with `random` turns out to be not that difficult:
```

~~~

~~~if-not:cpp

...text not visible in C++ description...

~~~
```

## Tasks and Requirements

Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, and many of them are not widely spread accross other languages. Because of this, some constructs should be avoided and some translations just shouldn't be done.
- C++ is statically typed, so any task that depends on dynamic typing can be difficult to translate into C++, and attempts of forcing a C++ kata to reflect a dynamically typed interface can lead to ideas that enforce a really bad design.
- There are just a few additional libraries available for the C++ runner, so kata that take advantage of additional, specialized packages installed for other languages become much more difficult in C++.
- Many features of C++ do not have direct equivalents in other popular languages: mixture of allowed paradigms, template meta-programming, unmanaged memory backed by RAII, native access to the platform and runtime, and many others. C++ kata which rely on them can be difficult to translate to other languages.

## Kata snippets and template

> Due to complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces names of source files, their amount, and meaning, code runner uses a `[template]()` (TODO: document C++ runner template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as implementation detail of C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

Author: ```suggestion
Due to complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces names of source files, their amount, and meaning, code runner uses a `[template]()` (TODO: document C++ runner template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as implementation detail of C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.
```

  // and etc.

public:
  It(RandomTests) {

    size_t input_length = rand_length(); //use length generator
    
    std::string input;
    for(int i=0; i<input_length; ++i) {
      
      //string generation logic...
      input.push_back(rand_letter()); //use generator of random letters

    }

    //... testing logic    
  }
};
```

_TODO: `sample`, `shuffle`

### Reference solution

If the test suite happens to use a reference solution to calculate expected values (which [should be avoided](/authoring/guidelines/submission-tests/#reference-solution) when possible), or some kind of reference data like precalculated arrays, etc., it must not be possible for the user to call it, redefine, overwrite, or directly access its contents. To prevent this, reference data can be made a private member of `Describe` structure. Reference solution can be either a private member of `Describe`, or a lambda-initialized local variable of an `It` block. See `[Example test suite](#example_test_suite)` for some examples.

The reference solution or data ___must not___ be defined in the [Preloaded code](/authoring/guidelines/preloaded/).

### Input mutation

> General guidelines for submission tests contain a section related to [input mutation](/authoring/guidelines/submission-tests/#input-mutation) and how to prevent users from abusing it to work around kata requirements. It's usually not a problem in "real world" C++ programming, but on Codewars, users can take advantage of vulnerable test suites and modify their behavior. Constness of a function argument can be forcefully cast away by a user, or they can change the function signature and remove `const` qualifier from input parameter(s).  After calling a user solution, tests should not rely on the state of such values and they should consider them as potentially modified by a user.

Author: ```suggestion
General guidelines for submission tests contain a section related to [input mutation](/authoring/guidelines/submission-tests/#input-mutation) and how to prevent users from abusing it to work around kata requirements. It's usually not a problem in "real world" C++ programming, but on Codewars, users can take advantage of vulnerable test suites and modify their behavior. Constness of a function argument can be forcefully cast away by a user, or they can change the function signature and remove `const` qualifier from input parameter(s).  After calling a user solution, tests should not rely on the state of such values, and they should consider them as potentially modified by a user.
```

- Appropriate assertion functions should be used for each given test. `AssertEquals` is not the only option, and Snowhouse provides a selection of constraints and expressions suitable for many scenarios: `EqualsWithDelta` for floating point comparisons, `EqualsContainer ` to compare containers with a predicate, etc.
- `Assert::That(bool)` should not be used, because it generates poor feedback on failure. The overload `Assert::That(bool_value, Equals(expected_value), message_supplier)` should be used instead.
- Overloads of `Assert::That` which accept `message_supplier` should be preferred. Assertion message should provide meaningful details on the cause of failure, like test input, etc.
- Some additional attention should be paid to the order of parameters passed to `Assert::That`. It differs between various assertion libraries, and it happens to be quite often confused by authors, mixing up `actual` and `expected` in assertion messages. For the C++ testing framework, the order is `(actual, SomeConstraint(expected))`.

> - To avoid unexpected crashes in tests, it's recommended to perform some additional assertions before assuming that the answer returned by the user solution has some particular form, or size. For example, if the solution returns a pointer, an explicit assertion should be added to check whether the returned pointer is valid, and not, for example, `nullptr`; the size of the returned container should be verified before accessing an element which could turn out to be located outside of its bounds.

Author: ```suggestion
- To avoid unexpected crashes in tests, it's recommended to perform some additional assertions before assuming that the answer returned by the user solution has some particular form, or size. For example, if the solution returns a pointer, an explicit assertion should be added to check whether the returned pointer is valid, and not, for example, `nullptr`; the size of the returned container should be verified before accessing an element which could turn out to be located out of its bounds.
```

- Many features of C++ do not have direct equivalents in other popular languages: mixture of allowed paradigms, template meta-programming, unmanaged memory backed by RAII, native access to the platform and runtime, and many others. C++ kata which rely on them can be difficult to translate to other languages.

## Kata snippets and template

Due to the complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces the names, amount, and meaning of source files, the code runner uses a `[template]()` (TODO: document C++ runner template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as an implementation detail of the C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

> One consequence of using a template is that the signature of a solution function can be modified by the user in a way which can affect tests. To avoid the possibility of users tampering with the prototype of a solution function, it's recommended to re-declare it in the tests snippet.

Reviewer 2: Redeclaration is questionable. It can be convenient to choose between accepting input by reference and by value (when a solution needs a copy anyway) and I think the only thing it prevents is lvalue-rvalue overloading that can be used to distinguish between fixed and random tests, which isn't really useful except when the tests are bad in the first place.

Author: You are not a first person to raise this issue, but as much as I can see where you guys are coming from, I do not like it ;)

My main idea behind this point was to prevent situations when a user changes const ref to non-const ref and mutates inputs to modify behavior of test cases. Or when user changes a narrow type to a wider type to work around some potential difficulties of solution.

On a side not related to kata, I do not like the idea of changing the interface just for a sake of an implementation detail. I know this technique and I know that it's used, I am just not sure whether a public interface of a solution is a good place to apply it.

I will think how to reword this part. Maybe something along the lines that _"make sure that users won't be able to break tests by modifying a signature of solution function"_, or something like that?

Author: ```suggestion
One consequence of using a template is that the signature of a solution function can be modified by the user in a way which can affect tests. Make sure that tests are not possible to work around by users tampering with the prototype of the solution function. One possible way to ensure this is to re-declare the solution function in the tests snippet.
```

Do you think it's better now?

Another issue caused by the use of the template is excessive namespace pollution. See paagraph on [namespaces](#namespaces) for more details.

## Coding

### Code style

C++ programmers have many sets of naming conventions or code style guides. Some of them can be found for example [here](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/coding-standards), or [here](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html). Codewars does not strictly enforce any of them, just use whatever set of guidelines you like, but when you do, use it consistently. 

There are a few C++ coding guidelines which are violated by kata authors and translators particularly often:
- Arguments which are not cheap to copy should be passed by const reference, and not by value.
- Appropriate containers should be used, _especially_ when used as input arguments or return values:
  - C-style raw arrays and pointers to arrays need to be avoided
  - `std::array`, `std::pair`, or `std::tuple` should be used for data of known size. Avoid representing 2D points or pairs with `std::vector`.

>   - `std::vector` should be used for arrays of varying size

Reviewer 2: I don't like calling non-arrays arrays, especially talking about languages that have arrays (although I see it in Python all the time anyway).
And I think the old normal C++ way would be a pair of iterators in many cases. Now that I think about it, it may actually be a good idea to update to C++20 now and use ranges and `span`s for input.

Author: ```suggestion
  - `std::vector` is not the only available option, and can be replaced by another container (for example, `std::set`), a set of iterators, a range, or any other construct suitable for the task.
```

>   - `std::string` should be used instead of C-strings

Reviewer 2: And `std::string_view`. `std::string` may have some useful functions for some use cases, but I think `string_view` often is the best choice, I've been replacing `const std::string&` arguments in my solutions (at least in some of) to `std::string_view`s for a while now.
(OK, I saw `std::string_view` below...)

Author: ```suggestion
  - `std::string` or `std::string_view` should be used instead of C-strings
```

### Compilation warnings

Compiler options related to warnings used by the C++ runner are somewhat strict and require some discipline to get the code to compile cleanly. `-Wall` and `-Wextra` may cause numerous warnings and some of them are very pedantic. However, code of C++ kata should still compile cleanly, without any warnings logged to the console. Even when a warning does not cause any problem with tests, users get distracted by them and blame them for failing tests.

### Avoiding C

Sometimes authors consider C++ just "C, but with classes". While C and C++ are compatible in many ways, that kind of perception is wrong: incorrect use of C features in C++ code leads to bad code at best, or to undefined behavior and difficult to diagnose errors in more extreme cases. Features and idioms from C language should be replaced with their equivalents from modern C++:

> - C features must not be used where they do not have well-defined behavior in C++. For example, memory management generally should not be done with `malloc`/`free` or similar, and VLAs should be replaced with `std::array` or `std::vector`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think `std::array` can replace VLA, can it?

Author: I was wondering what can be a replacement for VLAs and could not find any. But still, VLAs are not valid C++, are they?

- C++ features should be preferred over those inherited from C, for example:

>   - C-style casts should be replaced with their C++ equivalents.

Reviewer 2: This kind of thing looks to me like "we'll use this super-scalable DB that Google uses instead of a simple text file just because they say the former is cool and the latter isn't, although it's just 100 records used by 1 script".

Author: You mean specifically casts, or some other points from this paragraph too?

Author: I removed this part. If you think something should be added back and/or reworded, let me know.

> - C features must not be used where they do not have well-defined behavior in C++. For example, memory management generally should not be done with `malloc`/`free` or similar, and VLAs should be replaced with `std::array` or `std::vector`.

Author: ```suggestion
- C features must not be used where they do not have well-defined behavior in C++. For example, memory management generally should not be done with `malloc`/`free` or similar, and VLAs should be replaced with `std::vector`.
```

```cpp
//use random_device only as a seeder
std::random_device seeder;

//create one PRNG which will be used to pick values
//from (potentially many) distributions
std::mt19937 engine{ seeder() };

//a set of distributions for every type or range you are going to need in your tests
std::uniform_int_distribution<    int> rand_number     {  1,  100 };
std::uniform_int_distribution< size_t> rand_length     { 20,  100 };
std::uniform_real_distribution<double> rand_coefficient{ -1,    1 };
std::uniform_int_distribution<   char> rand_letter     { 'a', 'z' };
std::uniform_int_distribution<   char> rand_bool       {   0,   1 };
//etc.

//for convenience, distributions can be bound with PRNG
auto gen_length = std::bind(rand_length, engine);
auto gen_letter = std::bind(rand_letter, engine);

std::string input;
//input string generator: string of random length, composed of random letters
size_t input_length = gen_length(); //use length generator

> for(int i=0; i<input_length; ++i) {  

Reviewer 2: `size_t i`? Comparing signed with unsigned will probably generate a warning. (I guess `int input_length` is OK too for kata-scale sizes if it appears in an existing translation, but for best practices it should be `size_t`.)

Author: 🤦 
```suggestion
for(size_t i=0; i<input_length; ++i) {  
```

## Kata snippets and template

Due to the complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces the names, amount, and meaning of source files, the code runner uses a template to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as an implementation detail of the C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

One consequence of using a template is that the signature of a solution function can be modified by the user in a way which can affect tests. Make sure that tests are not possible to work around by users tampering with the prototype of the solution function.

> Another issue caused by the use of the template is excessive namespace pollution. See paagraph on [`using` directives`](#using-directives) for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another issue caused by the use of the template is excessive namespace pollution. See paragraph on [`using` directives`](#using-directives) for more details.
```

---
title: Authoring C++ Content

> sidebar_label: Authoring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Authoring
slug: /languages/cpp/authoring
```

## Description

C++-specific code can be inserted with the `cpp` flag in [sequential code blocks](/references/markdown/extensions/#sequential-code-blocks):

~~~
```cpp

...your code here...

```
~~~

C++-specific paragraphs can be inserted with [language conditional rendering](/references/markdown/extensions/#conditional-rendering):

```
~~~if:cpp

...text visible only for C++ description...

~~~

~~~if-not:cpp

...text not visible in C++ description...

~~~
```

## Tasks and Requirements

Some concepts don't always translate well to or from C++. C++ allows for a variety of paradigms and techniques, many of which are not necessarily suited to other languages. For this reason, certain constructs should be avoided and some kata just should not be translated to C++.
- C++ is statically typed, so any task that depends on dynamic typing can be difficult to translate into C++, and attempts to force a C++ kata to reflect a dynamically typed interface can lead to ideas that enforce a really bad design.

> - There are only a few additional libraries available to the C++ runner, so kata that take advantage of specialized packages installed for other languages become much more difficult to implement in C++.

Author: Still,  not as much as very rich libraries of languages like Java, .Net. Framework, Python with things like big numbers, crypto (hash functions), parsers and serializers (XML, csv), web connectivity, etc. There are kata related to all these elements, but they are not many, so maybe indeed it's not worth mentioning.

> - There are only a few additional libraries available to the C++ runner, so kata that take advantage of specialized packages installed for other languages become much more difficult to implement in C++.

Author: I removed this point.

- Many features of C++ do not have direct equivalents in other popular languages: mixture of allowed paradigms, template meta-programming, unmanaged memory backed by RAII, native access to the platform and runtime, and many others. C++ kata which rely on them can be difficult to translate to other languages.

## Kata snippets and template

> Due to the complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces the names, amount, and meaning of source files, the code runner uses a [template](/languages/cpp/solution_template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as an implementation detail of the C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

Reviewer 3: I don't know why it was decided to concatenate at first, but I don't think there's any reason to do this (other than we have 1K+ kata that relies on the setup). Maybe I'm missing something.

Author: I can see a few reasons for this, but I believe the most probable one is handling of templates in C++. Templates have to be defined in every translation unit, and that's why they're always located in header files. If a solution would need to define a template, it would be not enough for a solution to be a cpp file (i.e. a separate translation unit).

Reviewer 3: Ah, I see. If it was possible to have `solution.h` and `solution.cpp`, the test can include `solution.h` to be compiled separately and linked. Since we can't do that, we don't have a choice.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need a separate page for the template snippet. There's nothing much to explain further, and the new reusable one is self-explanatory.

Author: Solution snippet is not the only one affected by this issue. It applies also to, for example, preloaded, which might want to define global/static data in a cpp part, and declare it in a header file.

> Ah, I see. If it was possible to have `solution.h` and `solution.cpp`, the test can include `solution.h` to be compiled separately and linked. Since we can't do that, we don't have a choice.

It _could_ be done, but in kinda awkward way: snippets could contain some kind of markers which would separate "header" part and ".cpp part", and runner would split them into files appropriately. It's clunky, awkward, but in 99% not necessary, and some default behavior would suffice (no markers and store everything as a cpp file, compile, and link). Only those who need it, could use something like:

```cpp
/*============ solution.h ============*/
// ... declarations, template definitions

/*===========solution.cpp============*/
// ... implementation part
```

Not that I like this solution, but it _is_ one of solutions.

> I don't think we need a separate page for the template snippet. There's nothing much to explain further, and the new reusable one is self-explanatory.

Ok so I will remove the link to the "solution template" page for now, and later I will turn the "solution template" page into "how to train on cpp kata locally" and add the link back.

The reference solution or data ___must not___ be defined in the [Preloaded code](/authoring/guidelines/preloaded/).

### Input mutation

General guidelines for submission tests contain a section related to [input mutation](/authoring/guidelines/submission-tests/#input-mutation) and how to prevent users from abusing it to work around kata requirements. It's usually not a problem in "real world" C++ programming, but on Codewars, users can take advantage of vulnerable test suites and modify their behavior. Constness of a function argument can be forcefully cast away by a user, or they can change the function signature and remove the `const` qualifier from input parameter(s).  After calling a user solution, tests should not rely on the state of such values, and they should consider them as potentially modified by the user.

### Calling assertions

> Snowhouse provides a set of useful [assertions](/languages/cpp/igloo#snowhouse-assertions)`, but when used incorrectly, they can cause a series of problems:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snowhouse provides a set of useful [assertions](/languages/cpp/igloo#snowhouse-assertions), but when used incorrectly, they can cause a series of problems:
```

- Use of an assertion not suitable for the given case may lead to incorrect test results,
- Incorrectly used assertions may produce confusing or unhelpful messages.

To avoid the above problems, calls to assertion functions should respect the following rules:

> - The expected value should be calculated _before_ invoking an assertion. The `expected` parameter passed to the assertion should not be a function call expression, but a value calculated directly beforehand. _(? does this point hold for C++ kata?)_

Reviewer 2: > does this point hold for C++ kata

If it's about hiding the name of the reference solution, then it depends on whether it can be called from users' solutions. If it's about input mutation, it depends on whether the input is copied for the reference solution. If everything is done the best way, it shouldn't matter.

Author: ```suggestion
```

I think will remove it for now, and we will see if reviewers will be able to handle issues related to both above aspects correctly. Or maybe just make this point a recommendation instead of `should`?

> - Appropriate assertion functions should be used for each given test. `AssertEquals` is not the only option, and Snowhouse provides a selection of constraints and expressions suitable for many scenarios: `EqualsWithDelta` for floating point comparisons, `EqualsContainer ` to compare containers with a predicate, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Appropriate assertion functions should be used for each given test. `AssertEquals` is not the only option, and Snowhouse provides a selection of constraints and expressions suitable for many scenarios: `EqualsWithDelta` for floating point comparisons, `EqualsContainer` to compare containers with a predicate, etc.
```

## Kata snippets and template

Due to the complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces the names, amount, and meaning of source files, the code runner uses a [template](/languages/cpp/solution_template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as an implementation detail of the C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

One consequence of using a template is that the signature of a solution function can be modified by the user in a way which can affect tests. Make sure that tests are not possible to work around by users tampering with the prototype of the solution function.

Another issue caused by the use of the template is excessive namespace pollution. See paagraph on [`using` directives`](#using-directives) for more details.

## Coding

### Code style

> C++ programmers have many sets of naming conventions or code style guides. Some of them can be found for example [here](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/coding-standards), or [here](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html). Codewars does not strictly enforce any of them, just use whatever set of guidelines you like, but when you do, use it consistently. 

Reviewer 3: Try avoiding `[here]` links.

Author: Changed.

> There are a few C++ coding guidelines which are violated by kata authors and translators particularly often:

Reviewer 3: Doesn't this contradict with the above?

> Codewars does not strictly enforce any of them, just use whatever set of guidelines you like, but when you do, use it consistently.

Maybe we should have a small set of rules that content creators are expected to follow based on this list.

Author: I meant the first paragraph to be related to things like naming conventions, placement of braces, and other minuscule things people like to fight about over the Internet. 
The latter paragraph i meant to relate to more serious / not just aestethic language best practices.
Maybe my wording is off, and just do not know how to express myself clearly.

Author: I tried to reword both points, I am not sure if it's better though.

```text
  does_not_pretty_print_type_without_stringizer
    Expected: equal to [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
    Actual: [ [unsupported type], [unsupported type] ]
```

To rectify this issue in your tests, you can make such types suitable for stringification in a way described in the dedicated documentation article on [custom Snowhouse stringizers](/languages/cpp/igloo/stringizers/).

### Random utilities

Until C++11, the most common way of producing random values was the `rand` function. However, it has a set of problems: it needs to be properly seeded, and it is difficult to produce values outside of `0...RAND_MAX` range. Since C++11, the standard library offers a set of functionalities which are designed to produce random values of different types, from various ranges, and with better distribution when compared to `rand`. Unfortunately, the API presented in the `random` header seems to be confusing and difficult to use and accompanied by a few misconceptions, and authors either use it incorrectly or resort to (not) good, old `rand`. However, working with `random` turns out to be not that difficult:

```cpp

> //use random_device only as a seeder

Reviewer 3: Can we add a space after `//`? It's difficult to read.

I also think it's more common to have a space in any language.

```javascript
// comment
//comment
``` 
```python
# comment Python mentions this in PEP8 too.
#comment
```
```haskell
-- comment
--comment
```
```ocaml
(* comment *)
(*comment*)
```

Reviewer 3: I think it's difficult for me to read because my brain tries to ignore it. I've only seen no space when commenting out the line.

For the following code:
```javascript
//foo
bar();
```
I read:
```javascript
bar();
```
until I try not to ignore.

That doesn't happen when it has a space:
```javascript
// foo
bar();
```

Reviewer 3: Found https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1467058/space-between-line-comment-characters-and-start-of-actual-comment and the answers matches my experience.

I'll make it a rule. In our docs, space is required.

Author: Done.

## Kata snippets and template

Due to the complicated compilation model of C++ code, paired with the fact that Codewars strictly enforces the names, amount, and meaning of source files, the code runner uses a [template](/languages/cpp/solution_template) to concatenate all kata snippets into a single translation unit. This fact has various consequences on the code, some positive, and some negative: namespace pollution, symbols introduced by one snippet being visible in other snippets, etc. However, in the majority of cases, it does not affect kata in any way, and whenever possible, this behavior should be treated as an implementation detail of the C++ code runner. Kata snippets should be treated as separate source files, if possible.

> One consequence of using a template is that the signature of a solution function can be modified by the user in a way which can affect tests. Make sure that tests are not possible to work around by users tampering with the prototype of the solution function. One possible way to ensure this is to re-declare the solution function in the tests snippet.

Author: I removed the mentions of re-declaration of user solution.

### `using` directives

To avoid problems with namespace pollution, C++ snippets should not contain `using` directives (and especially `using namespace std;`) anywhere in the global namespace. Incorrect use of `using` can sometimes cause difficult to diagnose compilation problems. For example, `using namespace std;` placed incorrectly in "Complete solution" or in "Initial solution" snippet can result in failed compilation for _some_ users. To minimize such risks, authors should stick to following guidelines:
- `using` directives should not be present in global scope of "Preloaded", "Complete solution", and "Initial solution" snippets. They are heavily discouraged in global scope of "Sample tests" and "Submission tests" snippets. This rule applies not only to `using namespace std;`, but also to other namespaces and namespace-qualified names.

> - `using` directives can be perfectly used in function scope: inside of an "Initial solution" function, in test helpers, or in `It` blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `using` directives are perfectly fine inside the scope of an "Initial solution" function, test helpers, or `It` blocks.
```

Possibly even: "`using` directives are perfectly fine **when enclosed** inside the scope..."

## Tests

C++ kata use the [modified version](https://github.com/codewars/igloo) of the [Igloo](https://github.com/joakimkarlsson/igloo) testing framework, along with a [modified version](https://github.com/codewars/snowhouse) of the [Snowhouse](https://github.com/banditcpp/snowhouse) assertion library. Codewars modified both libraries to adapt them to the code runner environment and make them more useful for kata authors.

### Igloo

General structure of tests created with Igloo can be presented as:

```cpp
Describe(TestGroup_1) {

  It(TestCase_1) {
    //...
  }

  It(TestCase_2) {
    //...
  }
};

Describe(TestGroup_2) {

  It(TestCase_1) {
    //...
  }
};
```

> `Describe` blocks are expanded into C++ `struct`, and they can contain anything a structure can, in particular `public` and `private` access specifiers, member fields and functions, etc. `Describe` blocks can be also nested, with one remark: nested `Describe` sections compile and get registered for execution correctly, but test output panel does not report them hierarchically: all of them are flattened into one-level test report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Describe` blocks are expanded into C++ `struct`s, and they can contain anything a `struct` can, in particular `public` and `private` access modifiers, member fields and functions, etc. `Describe` blocks can also be nested, with one caveat: while nested `Describe` sections are correctly compiled and registered for execution, the test output panel does not report them hierarchically; they are all flattened into a single-level test report.
```

Reviewer: Also: Consider "member fields and **methods**", if appropriate and correct.

### Snowhouse

> `Snowhouse` provides `Assert::That` function, which can accept either a constraint which has to be fulfilled by an asserted value (`Assert::That(actual, Equals(expected))`), or a fluent expression accepting actual value as input and returning a boolean value indicating a success or failure (`Assert::That(actual, Is().Equal(expected))`). Both types of assertions are equivalent to each other and authors can choose whichever suits them better. For clarity, this document uses only constraints as examples, but each of them has corresponding expression. Most useful ones are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Snowhouse` provides the function `Assert::That`, which can accept either a constraint which has to be fulfilled by an asserted value (`Assert::That(actual, Equals(expected))`), or a fluent expression accepting actual value as input and returning a boolean value indicating success or failure (`Assert::That(actual, Is().Equal(expected))`). Both types of assertions are equivalent to each other and authors can choose whichever suits them better. For clarity, this document uses only constraints as examples, but each of them have corresponding expressions. The most useful ones are:
```

//... testing logic    
```

> Standard library also contains some functions which can be helpful when generating random inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard library also contains some functions which can be helpful when generating random inputs:
```

Below you can find an example test suite that covers most of the common scenarios mentioned in this article. Note that it does not present all possible techniques, so actual test suites can use a different structure, as long as they keep to established conventions and do not violate authoring guidelines.

```cpp
//include all required headers
#include <fmt/core.h>
#include <fmt/ranges.h>

#include <vector>
#include <algorithm>
#include <random>
#include <sstream>
#include <string>

//redeclare the user solution
std::vector<int> square_every_item(const std::vector<int>& ages);

Describe(FixedTests) {
  

>   //a test case of fixed_tests suite for primary scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // a test case of fixed_tests suite for a primary scenario
```

  It(ExampleArray) {
    

>     //using directive limited to non-global scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // using directive limited to non-global scope
```

    using namespace std;

    vector<int> items    = { 0, 1, 2, 3,  4 };  
    vector<int> expected = { 0, 1, 4, 9, 16 };
      
    auto actual = square_every_item(items);
    

>     //Assertion constraint checking for container equality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Assertion constraint checking for container equality
```

    Assert::That(actual, EqualsContainer(expected), ExtraMessage("Invalid answer for { 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 }"));
  }
  

>   //a test case of fixed_tests suite for potential edge case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // a test case of fixed_tests suite for a potential edge case
```

  It(EmptyArray) {
    
    std::vector<int> empty;
    
    auto actual = square_every_item(empty);
    Assert::That(actual, IsEmpty(), ExtraMessage("Input: empty vector"));
  }
};

Describe(RandomTests) {

private:
  
  std::mt19937 engine{ std::random_device{}() };
  std::function<int   ()> gen_number     = std::bind(std::uniform_int_distribution<int   >{  1, 100 }, engine);
  std::function<size_t()> gen_small_size = std::bind(std::uniform_int_distribution<size_t>{  2,  10 }, engine);
  std::function<size_t()> gen_large_size = std::bind(std::uniform_int_distribution<size_t>{ 80, 100 }, engine);

>   //random test case generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // random test case generator
```

  std::vector<int> generate_random_input(size_t size) {  
    std::vector<int> generated;
    std::generate_n(std::back_inserter(generated), size, gen_number);
    return generated;
  }  
  
  std::vector<int> square_every_item_ref(const std::vector<int>& numbers) {
    
    std::vector<int> result = numbers;
    std::transform(result.begin(), result.end(), result.begin(), [](int a) { return a * a; });
    return result;
  }
  
  std::string stringify_input(const std::vector<int>& input) {
    return fmt::format("{}", fmt::join(input, ","));
  }
  
public:  
  

>   //a set of small random tests, with verbose debugging messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // a set of small random tests, with verbose debugging messages
```

  It(SmallArrays) {
    
    for(int i=0; i<10; ++i) {
      

>       //generate test case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // generate test case
```

      size_t input_size = gen_small_size();
      auto input = generate_random_input(input_size);
      

>       //tests need to copy the input vector, because
>       //it is used after calling user and reference solution
>       auto original = input;
>       auto expected = square_every_item_ref(input);      
>       
>       auto actual = square_every_item(input);
>   
>       //assertion uses custom message to avoid confusing test output
>       //it also uses data from original, non-mutated input array
>       Assert::That(actual, EqualsContainer(expected), ExtraMessage(fmt::format("Input: {}", stringify_input(original))));
>     }
>   }  
> 
>   //a set of large random tests, with not so detailed debugging messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // tests need to copy the input vector, because
      // it is used after calling the user and reference solution
      auto original = input;
      auto expected = square_every_item_ref(input);      
      
      auto actual = square_every_item(input);
  
      // assertion uses a custom message to avoid confusing test output.
      // it also uses data from original, non-mutated input array
      Assert::That(actual, EqualsContainer(expected), ExtraMessage(fmt::format("Input: {}", stringify_input(original))));
    }
  }  

  // a set of large random tests, with less detailed debugging messages
```

  It(LargeArrays) {
    
    for(int i=0; i<10; ++i) {
      

>       //generate test cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // generate test cases
```

      size_t input_size = gen_large_size();
      auto input = generate_random_input(input_size);
      
      auto expected = square_every_item_ref(input);
      auto actual = square_every_item(input);
      

>       //assertion uses custom message supplier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // assertion uses custom message supplier
```
